- TCGA tumor + matched normal BAMs were downloaded from GDC for analysis. We used blood-derived matched normals, if possible. If a blood-derived normal was not available, a cancer-adjacent matched normal was used.
- TITAN was used for copy number calls; jobs were submitted on the Broad Data Science servers using the wrapper script: wrapper.sh. This script runs TITAN over TCGA samples baitset by baitset.
- Average chrX copy number per sample was calculated using the ploidy_match_TCGA_absolute_solution.py script across the TITAN results directory.

Running instructions:

(1) Install TITAN (https://github.com/GavinHaLab/TitanCNA_SV_WGS) and prepare a config file (example in: config_template.yaml)

Ha G, Roth A, Khattra J, Ho J, Yap D, Prentice LM, Melnyk N, McPherson A, Bashashati A, Laks E, Biele J. TITAN: inference of copy number architectures in clonal cell populations from tumor whole-genome sequence data. Genome research. 2014 Nov 1;24(11):1881-93.

(2) Submit wrapper.sh

The wrapper script runs TITAN iterating baitset by baitset. It first runs TCGA_DS_script.py which generates the lists of samples corresponding to each baitset and converts these lists into samples.yaml input files for TITAN. Afterwards, the wrapper begins iterating baitset by baitset, and creates a new config file based on the template (config_template.yaml) and current baitset. It then removes the previous samples file (samples.yaml) and copies the baitset-matched sample file generated by TCGA_DS_script.py. The TITAN snakemake workflow is then run. The output folders are moved to a permanent directory and the script iterates onto the next baitset.

(3) Run ploidy_match_TCGA_absolute_solution.py across the output directory

This script matches TITAN ploidy/purity solutions to ABSOLUTE purity/ploidy solutions to select the best TITAN solution for TCGA samples.
